                        BASIC CMOS IDEALOLOGY

The origins of cmos go back in one viewpoint to the origins of the
contrast in electronics of voltage and current. The first, which
represents "potential" or "the state of things", and the second, which
represents "action" or "things accomplished". Early electric effects
were almost entirely voltage oriented. The first effects were high
voltage/low current as in nature itself. This is in part because voltage
is the most easily observed and understood of the two.
When transistors were introduced, current became of paramount importance.
This is because these devices change their nature according to "work
being performed", and work must be provided in the form of current flow
even if no current flow is really required.
The FET device changed this order. Once again, circuits could be constructed
based on the "state" which was required, and the "work performed" could
be adjusted dynamically.
With logic circuits, the "state" of the circuit is the matter at hand,
and the "work performed" may be viewed as a "parisitic" or useless byproduct
of curcuit operation. This fits the current theories that hold that
the work required to accomplish logical operations can be infinately
reduced, and in fact eliminated entirely. This, however, is a goal
not unlike the attainment of absolute 0 in temperature, perhaps never
to be reached, but allways approached.
Today's logic design technology breaks into two separate fields, each
designed to attack a different side of the logic implementation problem.

Approach 1: Allways work -

If we give in to the idea that work is a required byproduct of logic,
one approach is to simply perform the same amount of work allways,
whether or not the logic operation actually dictates it. This acheives
high logic speeds due to the fact that most delays are from starting
and stopping current flow, ie. changing the amount of work done. The
result is the performance of all posible work whether it is required
or not. The power of such an approach can be reduced by reducing the
overall work required.
This approach is brought to it's ultimate in the ECL logic families.
Although this type of logic is normally thought of as "high speed -
high power", since there is no theoretical limit to the reduction of
overall work required, this may yet prove to be the ultimate "best"
technology by both power and speed standards.

Approach 2: Never work -

The other way is to minimize the work required by doing it only when
absolutely required. This makes the power drawn depend on the logical
requirement for it.
This approach is brought to the ultimate in CMOS logic families.
Again, although this type of logic is thought of as "low power -
low speed", since there is no limit to the reduction of work, a
"low power - high speed" version is still possible.
