                      AN INVESTOR'S STATEMENT OF PRODUCT

PURPOSE

.ti +5
This document will give a general overview of the purpose of the proposed
product, plan of introduction, and costs. Be warned: it was written by an
engineer, not a writer.

THE PROPOSED PRODUCT

.ti +5
Often some of the best business opportunities in the computer equipment
makers' market are the "hidden" support items. For instance, the current
upswing in sales of so called "work stations" is due in part to the increasing
assimulation of CAD (computer aided design) into general use. A work station
must consist of two components: the general purpose hardware and the CAD
software. The term "software" here covers the many functions the workstation
actually performs. Therefore, although there is one, very visible, workstation
manufacturer, there are many small companies supplying the different software
functions. As far as digital design CAD, there are a few "standard" type
components used:

.lm +5
.rm -5
1. The schematic entry graphics software.

2. The "simulator", that will let the engineer correct many design defects
before physical construction (and cost).

3. "Layout" software, that either helps or performs the "drawing" of the
actual circuits for manufacture.

.lm -5
.rm +5
The middle step is our target. The reasons that simulation is on an upward
spiral of importance are the key to what we propose to do, and must be
understood carefully.

SIMULATION AND "THE SIMULATOR":

Using mathematical or imperical laws, a computer can simulate any known
system. A popular example would be the computerized whether reports.
Simulation in general is a hot subject: anyone can understand that checking
aircraft designs by "flying" them in a computer will cost less and be more
productive than building on a trial-and-error basis.
Oddly, however, simulation in computer design at the OEM (original equipment
manufacturer, basically one who assembles integrated circuits into computers,
toasters, etc.) has only just started. The reasons are that:

.lm +5
.rm -5
1. OEM's still see the cost to build
a "prototype" unit as less than to arrange for simulation.

2. The avialibility of advanced CAD hardware/software makes building a
prototype simpler and cheaper at the same time as it provides simulation
capabilities.

3. OEM's usually build out of predesigned integrated circuits, which since
the manufacturer only knows the circuit contained, only he can create
simulation software.

.lm -5
.rm +5
This situation is totally reversed INSIDE the IC (integrated circuit) design
bisness. To match the above points:

.lm +5
.rm -5
1. There is no such thing as a protype IC. If the first build IC is not
"right" (which translates to mean saleable, at least as far as initial
customer sampling), at least serveral thousand has been lost just in the
materials cost alone.

2. Since most of the cost of a popular IC is in manufacture, CAD has been
manditory for some time. Also, better CAD has less effect on manufacturing
costs.

3. IC manufacturers' use only their own circuits.

.lm -5
.rm +5
The IC design methodology has, in fact, settled into a pattern. The
increasingly complex IC is also more complex to design and debug. It is not
untypical for %50 of the total IC design time to be spent running simulations.
This is explained if you consider the time it takes to fix design problems,
and fine tune the circuit prior to customer issue. What was past done in
the laboritory on real hardware is now done via CAD.

SIMULATION AND THE SIMULATION TIME PROBLEM

A computer can indeed simulate any known system, but the computer may not be
able to do this as fast as it occurs in real life. In fact, for an actual
medium complexity IC chip design, using a better than average simulator,
The simulation was clocked to be 120 MILLLON TIMES SLOWER than the actual
circuit as shipped would be. The reason that this is not unacceptable is that
most simple tasks that digital circuits perform are over in less than
1 millonth of a second. This means that 2 minutes are enough to watch a the
circuit perform a simple action. The following, taken from real life,
will clarify:

Time       Acheives             Used for in design
--------------------------------------------------------------------------
2 min.     A single action      Initial debugging

15 min -
1 hr.      A full test          Advanced debugging, and preparation
                                for manufacturing tests.

10 hours -
days       A battery of tests for manufacture.

At worst, this means that the process of debugging a circuit consists of the
following steps:

.lm +5
.rm -5
1. Run a simulation of the circuit (15 min.).

2. Check for problems, identify the source of problems (15 - 60 min.).

3. Design a solution to the problem, and arrange a corrected circuit (30 - 90
   min.).

4. Return to step 1 until the circuit functions correctly.

.lm -5
.rm +5
Of course, most designers hope to do better than this, using insight, and
solving multiple problems at once.
When arranging tests for manufacture, it is not uncommon to set a computer
to simulation for days or weeks at a time in order to complete the full
test battery. Fourtunately, this is fairly automatic and problem free, since
it is performed on a "working" circuit.

WHERE THE SIMULATION PROCESS IS GOING

There are to directions for the simulator market that I beleive are well
established:

.lm +5
.rm -5
1. The use of simulators will grow to include more OEM's. The best reason
for this is quite simple: OEM's are becoming increasingly involved in IC
level designs. So much circuitry can be contained on a single silicon chip
that traditional IC design houses have run out of "general purpose" IC
design opportunites unless semicustom IC's are made. This is the basis
of the "ASIC revolution" described in the literature.
Secondly, IC's that may be customized per user are increasingly used (a long
standing trend). The suppliers of these IC's encourage the customer to use
simulation instead of simply "burning up" IC's on a trial-and-error basis.
Thirdly, IC manufacturers' are providing simulation "plug in" software,
whose end result will be the customers' ability to accept such software via
sample disk or modem dial up and evaluate a possible design without leaving
the keyboard.

2. Simulators that run on general purpose computers will take longer to
deliver the same result. The first reason for this is that circuits on a
single IC are becoming increasingly complex. The second is that when serveral
IC's are simulated together (as in a OEM) the time may be multiplied times
the number of IC's present.

.lm -5
.rm +5
HARDWARE SIMULATORS AND FAULT SIMULATION

Although the simulation task is inherently slow, better solutions exist
than implementation on a general purpose computer. Constructing a hardware
by known methods gives a simulation speed hundreds of times faster than
software solutions. This means that an hour of simulation time now only
requires under a minute. Although this now makes debugging more efficient,
the main result is that more thourough testing is done, and a better chance
given that the IC will function correctly.
Perhaps of ultimate importance, the increased speed enables an otherwise
practically impossible technique known as "fault simulation" to be used.
Fault simulation goes one step beyond just simulating what happens when a
circuit functions correctly, but also what happens when it malfunctions
because of manufacturing defects. In IC design work, the product lives
or dies by whether or not such faults are detectable. This is because it
is not possible to manufacture all IC's with a sufficiently correct output
to ship to the customer (%90 good is considered the best that can be currently
done, and less than %50 good is common). Bad IC's must be separated out.
Automatic fault simulation at it's best can yeild a test that will pass
virtually no bad IC's.
The problem with fault simulation is that it takes orders of magnitude
more time than "good" simulation. Altthough a fault simulator uses the
same basic pricipals as a normal simulator, a software fault simulator on
any ordinary computer would take years to complete it's work, and only
supercomputers and hardware simulators can finish this task. Even then,
it may take months.

THE CURRENT HARDWARE SIMULATOR MARKET

Hardware simulators avalible commericially is an 80's phenominon, and the
market is only now taking off. In fact, the current leader in these systems,
ZYCAD, has only had their unit shipping for a few years. Because of the
complexity of harware simulators, it has been stated as a "trueisim" in the
field that 50,000 dollars is the floor for such machines. The ZYCAD machine
is typical. It is a 19" wide by 47" high, 190 lbs. unit. It sells for 65k
for a basic simulator, and 115k for a basic simulator with fault capabillity.
Because of the cost, the makers have made the unit virtually a stand - alone
machine, in view of the fact that it will usually be used to service
multiple mainframes running CAD. Even a large IC design house will buy one
and share it amongst the whole company, making use of it's speed to run
through a large "pile" of simulation work.

THE PRODUCT, PRODUCT ADVANTAGE

Hardware simulation "engines" were conceived in the university laboratory
as very complex special purpose machines. Although the basic working
principals are known, the field is still EXTREMELY immature. It is therefore
certainly not out of the realm of possibility that an algorithim that
dramatically simplifies the task may be found. This has been done, and the
end result is an algorithim that acheives the following rare points:

.lm +5
.rm -5
1. A DRAMATIC COST REDUCTION. I belieive that the parts cost for an
engine can be brought down to 100$ - 300$, and the total out the door cost
brought to 500$ - $700. Using a doubled cost as approximate selling price,
a 2000$ tag would bring in a price at %3 of the most popular machine.

2. The algorithim is unique and patentable.

.lm -5
.rm +5
How I came up with a cut down to the 2000$ range must be analized. The
following points are relivant:

1. The "Moore" engine works on a much simpler level than the current machines.
My philosophy here was that a simpler algorithim, and therefore simpler
hardware, would allow the savings to be applied to higher speed hardware.
This has a very desireable side effect: it is generally acknowledged that
working a simulation at a lower level yields a more accurate solution, and
simplifies machine interface.
(more later).

2. If the cost for a simulator is low enough, it becomes pointless to add
a general purpose computer into the machine, since it will be mated to
the customers' computer. Therefore, this cost is entirely subtracted out.

.lm -5
.rm +5
PRODUCT WINDOW

It would be foolish of me to assume that I am the only one working along the
current lines. The proper window for this product is "with all possible speed",
which means as fast as it can be properly constructed and put into production.
My estimate is that within 6 months from now working prototypes can be shown
to customers (and given to "beta site" customers with a support agreement).
Within 1 year the unit should be in full production.
Note that this leaves 6 months between the time that the news of the product
will be allowed in public hands to full head-on competion with the existing
engine manufacturers. Allowing the existing companies more than 6 months to
react is in my option very dangerous, patent or no.

PRODUCT SALES

There are two ways to look at the market opportunites provided here.

REASONS FOR POOR SALES

.lm +5
.rm -5
1. Because we will be dealing with large and conservative IC houses, they will
certainly continue to buy high priced engines based on the fact that they
provide a known working solution.

2. Simply providing the raw unit is insuffient to allow customer hookup.
Each machine currently used for CAD would have to be addressed individually,
a process that takes time, and gives the existing company with a track record
a distinct advantage.

3. The largest sales boost will occur when the workstation makers
accept and push our hardware as a component, something that they will be less
happy to do based on a lowered price tag.

.lm -5
.rm +5
REASONS FOR GOOD SALES

.lm +5
.rm -5
1. A large or giant semiconductor company will be a large consumer of engines.
A contract made with such a company, where on-site workstation adaption and
service is involved, would put a company on firm footing even with a very
early version of the engine.

2. There is every reason to beleive that a typical design house would take
the same 50k that would have gone towards one of the present engines, and
buy, say, 10 - 20 Moore engines plus the adaption and installation. This is
because what is REALLY wanted is to provide one deticated engine for every
existing workstation. Therefore we need not take less total dollar because
of lower asking price.

3. Finally, and I belive in the long run most importantly, the lower price
will itself open up sales to OEM's and others who would not have even
considered replacing their current software with an engine given the cost.

.lm -5
.rm +5
THE FIRST TEAM PLAYERS, LARGE EXPENSES

Upon delivery of the prototype, the life of the company will hinge on
the beta site (which is preferably a recognized IC house, who is willing to
be referenced), and the service intensive siting that will follow. Such
"ins" are not found by ad campains, but rather the extensive footwork
of a VERY SPECIAL salesman. During the second 6 months of the projected
startup, the company will revolve around his or their success here in the
silicon valley.
During the startup period, some number of consultants must be engaged to
create interfaces for customer equipment.
Finally, manufacturing costs mush be paid.

THE MINI-BISNESS PLAN

I will divide this into "relative quarters" of the startup year.

QUARTER ONE

The prime task is to get a working prototype. This will be done exclusively
by the designer, the total projected cost to carry forth this task estimated
at 5000$ for this quarter. The goal of this quarter is to show a prototype,
and some limited functionality (not nessaryily the final form the machine
will take).
The second task is to begin legal procedures. This will consist of legal costs
for arrangements between fininaceers and executors, and the start of the
patent search process. Depending on the complexity required (whether or not
the company is to be incorporated, etc.)., I would estimate these costs to
begin at 5000$.
The third task, performed on a tentative basis, is the search for sales and
technical help. If a search firm is used to lessen the time demands of the
engineer (recomendable), I would estimate from 1000$ to 3000$ total expense.

QUARTER TWO

At the start, or during the first part of this quarter, a prototype will be
avalible which be demonstratable under special circumstances. The remaining
technical work of this quarter will be to perform any polishing required,
and farm out the printed circuit board designs. The cost would be 5000$ for
The principal engineer, and an estimated 5000$ - $10000 total cost for
printed circuits to be designed, and prototypes built.
It will be imperitive that by the end of this quarter, at least one sales
concern or person be on line, with associated costs. Also, consultants may
be put to work on adaption card designs, which will run 3000$ for each
"start" undertaken.
Finally, the documentation will have to be started.

QUARTER THREE

There will be two possible paths during this quarter. If the fully designed
printed circuit units are avalible, these will be avalible for beta siting,
otherwise "wire wrapped" prototypes will be used (not an uncommon practice).
It will be essential that prototypes are installed and working at customer
sites early in this quarter. Any development work must rapidly cease, in
order that full attention be paid to customer service and manufacturing.
I would guess that at least five people or concerns would be involved at this
time, with a total cost during this quarter reaching 50k.

QUARTER FOUR

Will be the tranistion to full manufacture. The basic unit should be in final
form at this time, with new prototype attention going to adapters. This is
when full regular advertising will comence. Conservatively, 50k - 100k
would be required for this quarter, limited by capital returns from sales.
