                            VARIOUS SPEEDUP ALGORITHIMS

Purpose:

We will discuss various ways to cut down on the processing time required
to perform transistor level simulation.

The "change only" algorithim:

For each cycle we start with a list of devices that must be re-evaluated in
the coming cycle. This list is contructed by two sources in the past:

   1. When sets are processed, all devices whose gates connect
      to a changed node will be placed on the list. It is possible to
      "look ahead" and see if the device's new state will change it's
      source or drain nodes, and skip list addition if it does not.

   2. Changed state devices are collected during the cycle previous,
      in the same manner as sets.

Each device to be evaluated is removed from the change list, then the
evaluation run, and the new source and drain nodes calculated.
The entire list of devices attached to the node, aside from the one just
processed, must be placed onto the change list(s), as follows:

   1. Each drain or source connected device must be placed on the
      "current" change list.

   2. Each gate connected device must be placed on the "next" change list.

This algorithim handles settling by being recursive. If a device will change
the node state AGAIN it must place the entire node connected list BACK onto
the change list.
The following are the algorithim steps:

   1. Each "set" entry is processed. The state indicated by the
      set is placed on the given node, and if that state is different
      from the last state, the "node output" list (the source/drain list)
      list placed on the "current" list, and the "node input"
      (the gate list) is placed on the "next" list.

   2. Each "current" list entry is processed. The evaluation is performed,
      and if either the source, drain or both states change, that node(s)
      output list will be placed on the current list.

   3. If the current list is nonempty, we return to state 1.

   4. The current and next list are exchanged.

Tracing problems:

A related problem to speed is trace removal. Since a trace potentailly
represents a multiplication of the set of nodes, keeping that in memory
is generally impossible. A combination of two techniques is possible:

   1. A node state extraction process, which would examine each state of
      a "tagged" node that is written to node memory, and places this in
      the trace queue. Unwritten nodes would simply get the last queue
      state, as they are unmodified. This allows a hardware processor
      to avoid having to run a trace cycle.

   2. I/O buffering of the trace data.
