DRC rules under ICD:

ICD has a generalized methodogy for DRC productions. There are
three types of DRC's:

   1. Logical. These are rules that are dementionless, 
   and apply to any process. 

   2. General. These are general purpose rules that
   may be a superset of the actual rules.

   3. Specific. Rules that apply to one process or
   situation only.

These will be expanded.

Logical rules:

1. P-DIFF and N-DIFF rectangles must lie either entirely
within or entirely without a well.

2. P-N wells may not overlap.

3. P-DIFF and N-DIFF rectangles may not overlap.

3. Contacts must lie entirely within a P-DIFF, N-DIFF, or
poly, and entirely within a metal 1.

4. Vias must lie entirely within both a metal 1 and a metal 2.

5. Overglass must lie entirely within a metal 2.

6. The intersection of poly with diffs (the gate) must be solid,
ie, all of one diff type. It may be nessary to combine 
resultants to meet this rule.

7. Gates as found by (6) must lie on a well or substrate of
opposite polarity.

General rules:

1. Size minimum. Rectangles on a given layer must have a 
minimum size N in either X or Y.

2. Space to layer. A minimum spacing N must be obeyed between
layer X and each other layer. There exists a different value
between each layer. Any value may be 0, in which case any 
spacing down to abutment is allowed. Spacing to the same
layer can also be specified. The space rule only applies if
the layers do not abut or overlap.
The space rule is calculated by the "edge" of each rectangle.
Each edge of the rectangle is considered, and compared to 
the edge of the other rectangle in the same X or Y. This means
a total of 8 comparisions:

   1. Rec A left to rec B left.

   2. Rec A left to rec B right.

   3. Rec A right to rec B left.

   4. Rec A right to rec B right.

   5. Rec A top to rec B top.
  
   6. Rec A top to rec B bottom.

   7. Rec A bottom to rec B top.

   8. Rec A bottom to rec B bottom.

Thus, this rule covers overlap, space to edge and other rules.

3. Alignment. An alignment grid may be specified such that
each X and Y point must be evenly divisible by it.

4. Size exact. Where required, an exact feature size may be 
specified. Only squares of that size are allowed. The parameter
is otherwise set 0.
