                            WORK LIST FOR ICD

1. An error in "setend"s 45 deg calculator (I beleive the section that 
calculates the hypotiouse) occurs in snap and 45. Was not able to repeat
(random drawing).

2. Beginning a circle at screen center, and progressing towards the lower
right corner gives an error in "movcur".

3. Start an arc and move left first, will crash.

4. Finishing an arc, the entarc does not know about the arcfwd flag.

5. Errors in input format should be detected, and lit up in red, etc.

6. Alphabetize "files".

8. Implement recycling for all deleted, etc. objects.

9. Rips can be done more efficently. We perform the redraw step all
at once, using a list of figures as affected by the delete without
redunancies. Would have to perform a first "affected" pass and list
construct.

11. I beleive that cutting up arcs and circles in block save and
block cut modes is possible.

12. Cursor flash can be further reduced by only redrawing indicator
figures that have actually moved. For instance, the line and box
indicators only move when they snap to the next grid location
(in snap mode).

14. Character strings in cells do not transform during placement.
This requires changing the text mode from characters to strings,
and converting vchar for rotations.

15. circles/arcs in cells do not rotate properly.

16. The graphics tablet does not allways wake up properly, usually following
use of mouse emulator. Suspect incomplete reset.

17. Fiddling the shift key shuts down com1: !!! I suspect that direct access
of the serial port is going to be required (another oddity is the fact that
the bios routine transmits nulls when the line is inactive).

18. When editting a field, should be able to move the cursor by hitting
a puck button where the new cursor should be (did before, was roached by
the edit cancel fixes).

19. Changing modes while text entry is in progress actually cancels the
string, but leaves it in on display.

20. Should saved/cut blocks be rotatable ?

21. In "test", try creating a new cell and placing "test" several times,
then do "full". The bounding box is not o.k.

22. "loadlib" needs to do two passes and perform tree analisis and merge
on incoming cells. Good luck.
